---
date: 1697166001
title: 'Key Security Incidents and Hard Lessons from 2022'
description: 'Major cryptocurrency platforms faced catastrophic security failures in 2022, from exchange bankruptcies to decentralized finance (DeFi) exploits. The implosion of FTX, hacks against Crypto.com and Nomad, and the collapse of TerraUSD stablecoin rocked the crypto world. Many of the breaches arose from internal control lapses, technical design flaws, and code vulnerabilities. The incidents wiped out customer funds, sparked liquidity crises, and shattered trust.'
---

### **Introduction**

Major cryptocurrency platforms faced catastrophic security failures in 2022, from exchange bankruptcies to decentralized finance (DeFi) exploits. The implosion of FTX, hacks against Crypto.com and Nomad, and the collapse of TerraUSD stablecoin rocked the crypto world. Many of the breaches arose from internal control lapses, technical design flaws, and code vulnerabilities. The incidents wiped out customer funds, sparked liquidity crises, and shattered trust.

### **Internal Operation Error**

- **Bankruptcy of FTX. Here’s What to Know:** FTX is a Bahamas-based cryptocurrency exchange that declared bankruptcy in November 2022. FTX’s collapse was caused by a liquidity crisis of its token FTT. Before the bankruptcy, FTX was the third-largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume and had over one million users. It was reported that FTX transferred customer funds to Alameda Research, a trading firm affiliated with FTX and owned by FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried, violating FTX’s terms of service. When Binance (another cryptocurrency exchange and a former investor in FTX) announced to sell its FTT holdings, the token price plummeted, triggering a surge of withdrawal requests, leading to FTX freezing withdrawals and facing a liquidity crisis. FTX’s collapse had a huge impact on the cryptocurrency market, being compared to the “crypto’s Lehman moment” and "one of the biggest financial frauds in American history". FTX’s involved billions of dollars of customer funds were unaccounted for and stolen. Bankman-Fried resigned as CEO and was investigated by regulators and law enforcement agencies in various countries. FTX’s investors and partners also suffered heavy losses.

- **Hacked crypto startup Nomad offers a 10% bounty for return of funds after $190 million attack:** Nomad Bridge is a cross-chain bridge for swapping between Moonbeam and Ethereum networks. The incident was discovered based on a series of transactions on Nomad Bridge, where sending 0.01 WBTC from Moonbeam to the bridge would release 100 WBTC on the Ethereum network. In theory, processing these messages should be a two-step process. The first step should be to prove the validity of the transaction, and then process it. However, for the bridge transactions, only process() in Replica.sol was called without proving validity. Although proving and processing can be split into multiple transactions and blocks, these transactions had no early proofs. There is an assert (line 185) in the process() function that verifies whether the transfer message is associated with a valid root. By default, the root of an unproven message will be 0x00. When upgrading the protocol, Nomad decided to initialize the trusted root value to 0x00. Although this is a common practice, it also matches the untrusted root value, so all messages are automatically considered proven. Once the problem was discovered, it was exploited by a series of transactions. As a result, about $190 million was lost from the bridge.

- **CRYPTO.COM Admits $35 Million Hack:** Crypto.com is a cryptocurrency exchange that manages users’ private keys for their blockchain accounts. In the attack in January 2022, Crypto.com identified unauthorized activity on users’ accounts and further investigation revealed that users did not enter 2FA codes when conducting transactions on these accounts. This indicates that attackers identified vulnerabilities in Crypto.com’s security infrastructure that allowed them to completely bypass the 2FA requirement during the authentication process. As a result, the protection provided by 2FA became useless, and users’ accounts were protected only by passwords. By exploiting this 2FA bypass, attackers were able to extract 4836.26 ETH ($15.2 million) and 443.93 BTC ($18.6 million) from the Crypto.com users. They then sent these tokens to Tornado Cash to make them untraceable. Crypto.com’s official statement is very limited and misleading; CEO Kris Marszalek’s early statement claimed that no customer funds were lost despite clear evidence to the contrary.

- **How a fake job offer took down the world’s most popular crypto game:** An Axie Infinity senior engineer was lured by a fictitious company and applied for a job, which resulted in a loss of $540 million in cryptocurrency earlier this year. Hackers contacted Sky Mavis employees through social platforms such as LinkedIn as recruiters and conducted multiple rounds of interviews. They sent a fake job contract in PDF format to an engineer, which installed spyware on their computer and invaded four verification nodes of the Ronin network. The hackers used Axie DAO’s authorization to obtain the signature of the fifth verification node, allowing them to transfer encrypted assets. Sky Mavis later increased the number of verification nodes and promised to compensate affected users with their own and investors’ funds.

### **Technical design issues**

- **The LUNA and UST Crash:** The UST stablecoin, which is supposed to maintain a price around $1, fell below 30 cents on May, 2022, causing a loss of confidence in the Terra ecosystem and its sister token LUNA. Anchor is a lending protocol that offers high yields to UST depositors. Most of the UST supply was locked in Anchor, but when depositors started to withdraw their funds, it created a massive sell pressure on UST and LUNA. Terra’s official peg defenders, the Luna Foundation Guard (LFG), deployed over $2 billion worth of bitcoin reserves to market makers to defend UST’s peg. However, the plan had limited success and drained LFG’s wallets almost entirely. The collapse of UST, which forms the foundation of decentralized finance (DeFi) on Terra, poses a systemic risk for the entire crypto ecosystem. It also exposes the vulnerabilities of algorithmic stablecoins and invites regulatory scrutiny.

### **Hack Attack**

- **Wormhole cryptocurrency platform hacked for $325 million after error on GitHub:** A decentralized finance (DeFi) platform called Wormhole was hacked by a hacker who exploited a security flaw to steal nearly $325 million in cryptocurrency on February 2nd, which is the largest cryptocurrency theft this year and the fifth largest crypto hack of all time. The flaw seems to have resulted from a recent update to the project’s GitHub repository, which revealed a fix to a bug that had not yet been deployed to the project itself. The hacker forged a valid transaction signature that allowed them to freely mint 120,000 wETH (a “wrapped” Ethereum equivalent on the Solana blockchain) without first inputting an equivalent amount. They then exchanged it for about $250 million in Ethereum that was transferred from Wormhole to the hacker’s account, effectively liquidating a large amount of the platform’s Ethereum funds that were held as collateral for transactions on the Solana blockchain.

### **Summary**

Overall, 2022 exposed the precarious foundations of even large crypto platforms with seismic security failures. Hard lessons remain about preventing centralized control, ensuring transparency, implementing robust security practices, and maintaining sufficient collateral. Though catastrophic for many users, the crises chart a way forward for reconstructing on more secure foundations under intensifying regulatory scrutiny.

### **References**

- <https://www.nytimes.com/2022/11/10/technology/ftx-binance-crypto-explained.html#:~:text=FTX%20filed%20for%20bankruptcy%20at%20the%20end%20of,software%20to%20%E2%80%9Cconceal%20the%20misuse%20of%20customer%20funds.%E2%80%9D>
- <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bankruptcy_of_FTX>
- <https://www.halborn.com/blog/post/explained-the-nomad-hack-august-2022>
- <https://www.cnbc.com/2022/08/05/crypto-startup-nomad-offers-10percent-bounty-after-190-million-hack.html>
- <https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2022/01/20/cryptocom-admits-35-million-hack/?sh=13bfd2027513>
- <https://www.halborn.com/blog/post/explained-the-crypto-com-hack-january-2022>
- <https://www.theblock.co/post/156038/how-a-fake-job-offer-took-down-the-worlds-most-popular-crypto-game>
- <https://www.coindesk.com/layer2/2022/05/11/the-luna-and-ust-crash-explained-in-5-charts/>
- <https://www.theverge.com/2022/2/3/22916111/wormhole-hack-github-error-325-million-theft-ethereum-solana>
