---
date: 1691744359
title: 'Decoding USDC: What Influences its Availability'
description:
  'Recent regulatory actions emphasize the significance of compliance within the cryptocurrency
  sector. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is ensuring that crypto trading
  platforms adhere to regulations, with Bittrex settling charges for a notable $24 million.
  Internationally, eToro faces challenges from the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
  (ASIC) over its contract for difference (CFD) product.'
---

### **Introduction**

Recent regulatory actions emphasize the significance of compliance within the cryptocurrency sector.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is ensuring that crypto trading platforms adhere
to regulations, with Bittrex settling charges for a notable $24 million. Internationally, eToro
faces challenges from the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) over its contract
for difference (CFD) product.

### **Global Regulatory Stance**

Recent regulatory actions have highlighted the importance of compliance in the cryptocurrency
industry. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (**SEC**) has taken significant steps to
ensure that crypto asset trading platforms adhere to established regulations. **Bittrex, a prominent
crypto asset trading platform, has settled charges with the SEC for operating as an unregistered
national securities exchange, broker, and clearing agency. The settlement includes a substantial
monetary payment of $24 million.**

On the international front, **eToro**, a renowned social investment platform, is facing **legal
challenges** from the **Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC)**. The regulator
alleges that eToro failed to act efficiently, honestly, and fairly concerning its contract for
difference (**CFD**) product. The ASIC's concerns revolve around eToro's target market for the CFD
product, which they believe was too broad for such a high-risk trading product. The regulator
estimates that nearly 20,000 of eToro's clients lost money trading CFDs between October 2021 and
June 2023.

In conclusion, the regulatory landscape is evolving rapidly, with authorities worldwide taking a
keen interest in ensuring that cryptocurrency platforms operate within the confines of the law.
These developments, combined with the dynamic nature of the stablecoin market, could influence
customer confidence in the supply of USDC and other stablecoins. It's essential for stakeholders to
stay informed and adapt to the changing environment to ensure continued growth and stability in the
sector.

### **Technology Advancements in USDC**

The launch of **PayPal's stablecoin, PYUSD**, has sparked discussions within the crypto community.
Approximately **26 million PYUSD tokens** have been issued. Tether's CTO, Paolo Ardoino, opines that
PYUSD's introduction doesn't affect Tether (USDT) since Tether isn't aimed at U.S. users.
Nonetheless, the rivalry between PYUSD and Circle's USDC stablecoin is still unfolding. While USDT
remains the leading stablecoin with a circulation of more than 84 billion tokens, USDC is not far
behind with over 24 billion tokens in supply.

The PYUSD is an **ERC-20 token based on the Ethereum** blockchain and is backed by deposits in US
dollars, short-term Treasury bills, and similar cash equivalents. It's pegged to the US dollar and
will soon be available to PayPal customers in the US. Additionally, Paxos plans to release monthly
reports detailing the assets backing PYUSD. The article also touches on the regulatory environment,
noting that Paxos recently faced an SEC lawsuit and mentions support from US lawmaker Patrick
McHenry for PayPal's stablecoin initiative.

Also, the PYUSD is implemented by **upgradble proxy design pattern**. It means there’re two kinds of
contracts. One is proxy contract, and the other is implementation contract. The reference lists the
related contract addresses.

1. **Proxy Contract**: This contract holds the storage and delegates all calls to an implementation
   (logic) contract. The address of the implementation contract can be changed, allowing for
   upgrades.
2. **Implementation Contract**: This is where the actual logic of the application resides. When you
   want to upgrade, you deploy a new version of this contract and then update the proxy to point to
   the new version.

As more and more corporates take part in crypto market, the transparency and security offered by
blockchain technology, combined with the stability of assets like USDC, will likely play a pivotal
role in shaping the future of digital finance.

### **Economic Outlook and Trends**

1. **US Household Credit Card Debt:**
   - The US has reached a significant milestone in credit card debt, surpassing **$1 trillion** for
     the first time. This increase is attributed to a **4.6% rise in credit card balances during the
     second quarter**, totaling $1.03 trillion. Overall household debt also grew, with a 1%
     increase, reaching $17.06 trillion in the same quarter. This escalation in debt coincides with
     interest rates nearing a record **20.53%**, the highest in 22 years, making debt repayment more
     challenging for households.
2. **Wilko's Bankruptcy:**
   - The **UK-based household goods retailer**, Wilko, has entered administration, endangering its
     **400 stores and 12,500 jobs**. The company's move to seek protection from creditors comes
     after a failure to secure emergency funding amidst a trading downturn. The company's challenges
     highlight the broader economic pressures faced by retailers, with **rising inflation and
     interest rates impacting consumer spending**.
3. **Germany's Automotive Sector:**
   - Germany's industrial production witnessed **a decline of 1.5% in June compared to May**, with
     the **automotive sector experiencing a 3.5% drop**. This decline raises concerns about Germany
     potentially re-entering a recession. The automotive industry, a significant contributor to
     Germany's economy, has been grappling with challenges from the pandemic and supply chain
     disruptions.
4. **China's Export Decline:**
   - China, the world's second-largest economy, has seen its **exports drop by 14.5% in July**
     compared to the previous year. This decline marks the third consecutive month of reduced
     exports. The decrease in exports is attributed to global demand slowdown, inflation, and rising
     interest rates affecting global consumption. Additionally, China's imports also fell by 12.4%
     in July, indicating softened domestic demand.

The global economic landscape, as depicted by the aforementioned events, showcases a mix of
challenges and uncertainties. Rising household debts in the US, coupled with economic pressures in
major economies like the UK, Germany, and China, indicate potential shifts in consumer behavior and
investment strategies.

In such a scenario, stablecoins like USDC could emerge as a preferred choice for investors and
consumers seeking stability and security. The decentralized nature of blockchain, combined with the
pegging of USDC to the US dollar, offers a hedge against economic volatilities. As traditional
markets face turbulence, the confidence in and supply of USDC might witness an upward trajectory,
positioning it as a reliable financial instrument in the evolving global economy.

### **Summary**

The article delves into the evolving regulatory landscape of the cryptocurrency industry. Bittrex, a
major crypto trading platform, has settled with the SEC for operating without proper registration,
resulting in a $24 million payment. eToro, a global investment platform, is under scrutiny from ASIC
for its CFD product, with concerns about its broad target market. The article concludes by
emphasizing the rapid changes in the regulatory environment and the potential impact on customer
confidence in stablecoins like USDC. Stakeholders are urged to stay updated and adapt to these
changes to ensure the sector's growth and stability.

### **Reference**

- https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1884021/000138713123009033/ethu-485apos_072823.htm
- https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2023-150
- https://decrypt.co/152090/crypto-exchange-bittrex-agrees-pay-24-million-settle-sec-lawsuit
- https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/08/10/bittrex-reaches-settlement-with-sec-agrees-to-pay-24m-fine/
- https://thefintechtimes.com/etoro-locks-horns-with-asic-australian-regulator-sues-over-dishonest-cfd-exposure/
- https://www.theblock.co/post/243602/paypal-stablecoin-tether-usdc-impact
- https://coinmarketcap.com/community/articles/64d1bb684ce9d035a27be3c4/
- https://etherscan.io/address/0x6c3ea9036406852006290770BEdFcAbA0e23A0e8
- https://etherscan.io/token/0x6c3ea9036406852006290770BEdFcAbA0e23A0e8
- https://etherscan.io/address/0xe17b8adf8e46b15f3f9ab4bb9e3b6e31db09126e#code
- https://etherscan.deth.net/address/0xe17b8adf8e46b15f3f9ab4bb9e3b6e31db09126e#code
- https://edition.cnn.com/2023/08/08/economy/us-household-credit-card-debt/index.html
- https://edition.cnn.com/2023/08/10/economy/wilko-store-files-bankruptcy/index.html
- https://edition.cnn.com/2023/08/07/economy/germany-recession-car-industry/index.html
- https://edition.cnn.com/2023/08/08/economy/china-trade-exports-decline-july-intl-hnk/index.html
