---
date: 1694742394
title: 'Navigating the Crosscurrents: Prospects of Ethereum Amid Cryptocurrency Growing Pains'
description: 'Recent developments in cryptocurrency regulation, technology, and economic trends highlight the rapidly evolving landscape of decentralized finance. On the regulatory front, authorities are taking action against certain players while establishing guardrails for the industry. Technologically, innovations by Ethereum competitors aim to address scaling and usability challenges. Economically, fallout from the FTX collapse continues alongside signs of maturation. This confluence of events underscores both persisting growing pains and forward momentum for the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Key regulatory actions include court approval for FTX to liquidate holdings, warnings issued against bad actors, and bans of key figures from Three Arrows Capital. Technologically, solutions focus on bridging networks, enhancing accessibility and integrating mainstream payment rails. Economically, security incidents, staff cuts, and service wind downs signal bearish conditions, even as adoption advances. While risks remain for Ethereum, its dominance appears secure as competitors carve niches and the industry develops sounder practices, potentially driving a 5% decrease in ETH price.'
---

### **Introduction**

Recent developments in cryptocurrency regulation, technology, and economic trends highlight the rapidly evolving landscape of decentralized finance. On the regulatory front, authorities are taking action against certain players while establishing guardrails for the industry. Technologically, innovations by Ethereum competitors aim to address scaling and usability challenges. Economically, fallout from the FTX collapse continues alongside signs of maturation. This confluence of events underscores both persisting growing pains and forward momentum for the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Key regulatory actions include court approval for FTX to liquidate holdings, warnings issued against bad actors, and bans of key figures from Three Arrows Capital. Technologically, solutions focus on bridging networks, enhancing accessibility and integrating mainstream payment rails. Economically, security incidents, staff cuts, and service wind downs signal bearish conditions, even as adoption advances. While risks remain for Ethereum, its dominance appears secure as competitors carve niches and the industry develops sounder practices, potentially driving a 5% decrease in ETH price.

### **Global Regulatory Stance**

- **FTX gets court approval to sell and invest crypto holdings:** The bankrupt crypto exchange FTX can sell, stake and hedge its crypto holdings, which are worth over $3.4 billion, to pay back creditors, according to a court ruling by Judge John Dorsey. FTX holds $1.16 billion of solana (SOL), $560 million in bitcoin (BTC) and other lesser known illiquid tokens.Besides, FTX also asked to hire Galaxy Digital’s Mike Novogratz as an adviser.

- **Warning issued by SFC against JPEX:** SFC claims that JPEX and its promoters have made false or misleading statements to the public, such as claiming to have obtained licenses from overseas regulators and to have partnered with a Hong Kong listed company. The SFC also reveals that some investors have complained about being unable to withdraw their virtual assets from JPEX or finding their account balances reduced or altered. The SFC reminds investors of the risks of dealing with unregulated platforms and urges them to check the SFC website for licensed entities.

- **MAS issues Prohibition Orders against Three Arrows Capital’s Zhu Su and Kyle Livingston Davies:**  MAS found that TACPL and its two directors violated the Securities and Futures Act (SFA) and Securities and Futures (Licensing and Conduct of Business) Regulations (SFR). TACPL failed to notify MAS of the employment of a representative, provided false information to MAS, and did not have a risk management framework for its cryptocurrency and digital asset investments. Zhu and Davies were the CEO and Chairman of TACPL respectively, and were primarily responsible for ensuring TACPL’s compliance with MAS’ regulatory requirements. MAS’ investigation showed that they had failed to discharge their duties.

### **Technology Advancement against ETH**

- **LayerZero adds Google Cloud oracle support:** LayerZero is a cross-chain interoperability protocol that allows different blockchains to communicate with each other. LayerZero has integrated the Google Cloud oracle, which will verify the validity of every message within the protocol by default starting from Sept. 19. Google Cloud is expanding its web3 services and products, while Google is also embracing blockchain-based in-app content.
- **MetaMask Snaps Open Beta:** MetaMask Snaps, a new feature that allows users to customize their MetaMask wallet with features and functionalities built by independent developers. Providing transaction insights, interoperability with non-Ethereum blockchains and dapps, and web3-specific notification.
- **Coinbase to integrate Lightning Network:** Crypto exchange Coinbase has decided to integrate the layer 2 payment protocol Lightning Network, which enables faster and cheaper Bitcoin transactions. Lightning Network was created to help Bitcoin scale and compete with newer cryptocurrencies that offer lower fees and higher speeds. It allows users to open payment channels and transact off-chain, reducing congestion on the Bitcoin network.
- **PayPal Introduces On and Off Ramps for Web3 Payments:** PayPal is expanding its crypto services to web3 merchants in the U.S. (subject to state law) by allowing them to integrate PayPal On and Off Ramps. PayPal On Ramps enable customers to buy crypto with PayPal from their wallets, while PayPal Off Ramps allow them to convert their crypto to USD and transfer it to their PayPal balance. PayPal aims to increase access to digital currencies, provide a trusted and seamless payments experience, and leverage its security and fraud management tools.

### **Economic Outlook and Trends**

- **Vitalik Buterin reveals X account hack was caused by SIM-swap attack:** The hacker used Buterin’s phone number to reset his Twitter password and posted a fake NFT giveaway that scammed users out of over $691,000. Buterin said he has recovered his T-Mobile account and shared some lessons and learnings from the incident, such as removing phone numbers from Twitter and avoiding using them for authentication.
- **Binance.US cuts third of staff as CEO Brian Shroder leave:** Binance.US has reportedly cut around a third of its staff and its president and CEO Brian Shroder has left the firm. Recently, Binance.US is facing lawsuits from the SEC and the CFTC for allegedly operating an illegal exchange, selling unregistered securities, violating commodities laws and mishandling customer funds. Binance.US’s chief legal officer Norman Reed has taken over as the interim president and CEO.
- **Genesis announces winding down of crypto trading services:** Genesis, a cryptocurrency lending service provider, is a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group (DCG). DCG is also the parent company of Grayscale Investments. Genesis announced that it will stop providing spot and derivative trading services for cryptocurrencies through its subsidiary GGC International in the British Virgin Islands. This comes after Genesis Global Trading voluntarily terminated its spot trading services earlier this year for business reasons. Genesis Global Capital suspended withdrawal services in November 2022 and filed for bankruptcy protection in January 2023. The SEC charged Gemini and Genesis with offering unregistered securities through Gemini’s Earn program. Genesis also blamed Three Arrows Capital for its collapse and claimed losses due to the failure of FTX exchange. DCG announced in August that it had reached a preliminary agreement with Genesis to allow creditors to recover most of their funds. However, Genesis’ borrowers later called this agreement “wholly inadequate” - the company reportedly owes its top 50 creditors about $3.5 billion.

### **Summary**

Recent developments capture the precarious yet forward-looking state of cryptocurrencies today. As regulators clamp down on excesses, technological innovation and business integration continue apace. The economic turmoil triggered by FTX spotlights lingering weaknesses and volatility. However, the persistence of technological advancement and measured regulatory oversight point to an emerging maturity in decentralized finance. For Ethereum specifically, its leadership position faces little threat as competitors fill specialized roles. Improved scalability and usability reinforce Ethereum's versatility. However, Ethereum must continue enhancing security and efficiency while working with regulators to shape a sustainable future for Web3. Overall, the crypto ecosystem appears poised for greater stability and mainstream adoption, with Ethereum at the forefront, provided its founders and users proactively address current growing pains and possibly leading to a 5% decrease in ETH price.

### **References**

- <https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/09/13/judge-allows-bankrupt-ftx-to-sell-its-crypto-holdings-including-btc-and-sol/>
- <https://apps.sfc.hk/edistributionWeb/gateway/EN/news-and-announcements/news/doc?refNo=23PR101>
- <https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/enforcement/enforcement-actions/2023/mas-issues-prohibition-orders-against-three-arrows-capital-zhu-su-and-kyle-livingston-davies>
- <https://thedefiant.io/layerzero-taps-google-cloud-oracle-for-message-verification>
- <https://metamask.io/news/latest/metamask-snaps-our-first-step-on-the-road-to-becoming-fully-permissionless/?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=organicsocial&utm_campaign=2023_Sep_snaps-launch_awareness_content>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/coinbase-bitcoin-lightning-network-integration-brian-armstrong>
- <https://newsroom.paypal-corp.com/2023-09-11-PayPal-Introduces-On-and-Off-Ramps-for-Web3-Payments>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/vitalik-buterin-reveals-x-account-hack-was-caused-by-sim-swap-attack>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/binance-us-cuts-third-of-staff-ceo-brian-shroder-leaves-report>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/genesis-winding-down-crypto-trading-services>
