---
date: 1695869395
title: 'Navigating Regulatory Pressures While Pushing Cryptocurrency Progress'
description: 'Cryptocurrencies continue facing increased scrutiny from regulators worldwide, even as new technological developments aim to expand adoption and utility. Lawmakers are urging the SEC to approve spot bitcoin ETFs in the U.S., while Taiwan issues new crypto provider guidelines and the Federal Reserve critiques stablecoins. However, solutions like digital yuan top-ups, Uniswap transaction safeguards, and Microsoft exploring Xbox crypto wallets highlight ongoing crypto innovation.'
---

### **Introduction**

Cryptocurrencies continue facing increased scrutiny from regulators worldwide, even as new technological developments aim to expand adoption and utility. Lawmakers are urging the SEC to approve spot bitcoin ETFs in the U.S., while Taiwan issues new crypto provider guidelines and the Federal Reserve critiques stablecoins. However, solutions like digital yuan top-ups, Uniswap's transaction safeguards, and Microsoft exploring Xbox crypto wallets highlight ongoing crypto innovation.

### **Global Regulatory Stance**

- **Lawmakers urge SEC to approve spot bitcoin ETFs:** A bipartisan group of four House Financial Services Committee members sent a letter to SEC Chair Gary Gensler asking him to approve applications for spot bitcoin ETFs.The letter argued that spot bitcoin ETFs are indistinguishable from crypto futures ETFs, which the SEC has already approved, and that the agency should follow the court’s decision that rejected its denial of Grayscale’s application. The lawmakers said the SEC’s current stance is untenable, inconsistent and discriminatory.

- **The Financial Supervisory Commission of Taiwan issued the guidelines for the management of virtual asset service providers:** The guidelines aim to enhance the protection of customers’ rights and interests by setting standards for VASPs in terms of information disclosure, asset custody, transaction fairness, contract formation, complaint handling, system security, internal control, and anti-money laundering. The guidelines also regulate the issuance of virtual assets, the listing and delisting of virtual assets, the personal and overseas VASPs, and the self-regulation of the industry

- **US Federal Reserve Banks say stablecoins could ‘become a source of financial instability’:** Stablecoins experience accelerated redemptions when their price falls below $0.99, which is analogous to the break-the-buck threshold of money market funds.
Stablecoins  could become a source of financial instability if they grow and become more interconnected with key financial markets, such as short-term funding markets.

### **Technology Advancement in the Competitors of ETH**

- **Digital yuan app adds prepaid Mastercard, Visa top-ups for tourists:** e-CNY app that powers China’s digital yuan pilot now allows users to top up their wallets with Visa and Mastercard payment options. The app also supports overseas mobile numbers for registration, making it easier for tourists to use the digital yuan in China.

### **Technology Advancement**

- **Uniswap Wallet Introduces “Swap Protection” To Safeguard Ethereum Transactions:** Swap Protection for Uniswap Wallet, a decentralized exchange platform that allows users to swap tokens on the Ethereum network. Swap Protection aims to provide users with more security and reliability when performing swaps, by adding a layer of privacy, reducing vulnerabilities, and blocking miner extractable value (MEV) attacks. Swap Protection is automatically enabled for all Ethereum transactions, but users can also adjust the slippage settings according to their preferences.

### **Economic Outlook and Trends**

- **Arbitrum DAO takes $56M of unclaimed ARB as airdrop deadline ends:**  The Arbitrum Foundation transferred 69.4 million ARB tokens, worth around $56 million, to the Arbitrum DAO treasury on Sept. 24. These tokens were unclaimed from the Arbitrum airdrop that ended on the same day. Eligible Arbitrum users and developers received up to 12.75% of the token’s supply of 10 billion, or 1.275 billion ARB. ARB is the governance token of the Arbitrum DAO, a Layer 2 Ethereum scaling solution. Arbitrum DAO governance: ARB holders can participate in the on-chain governance protocol of the Arbitrum DAO, which was launched in March 2023. The DAO decides how to use the treasury funds and other network parameters

- **$200M Mixin Network hack draws controversy:** Mixin Network is a decentralized cross-chain transfer protocol that was hacked on Sept. 23, resulting in the loss of $200 million in assets, mainly Bitcoin. The hack occurred due to a breach of Mixin’s cloud service provider’s database, which compromised Mixin’s hot wallets. Mixin’s cold storage was unaffected. Mixin’s founder Xiaodong Feng announced a compensation plan that would reimburse up to 50% of users’ assets for now, and the rest in the form of tokenized liability claims that would be repurchased with future profits.

- **Chase bans crypto payments in the U.K:** Chase, a digital bank subsidiary of JPMorgan , will stop its U.K. customers from buying crypto assets or transferring money to crypto sites from Oct. 16. The decision is based on the increase in crypto scams targeting U.K. consumers, which caused a loss of 329 million pounds last year.
The U.K. has recently passed a reform bill that regulates crypto as a financial instrument, but also imposes limits on marketing campaigns.

- **Leaked documents reveal Microsoft’s plans to bring crypto wallets to Xbox:** According to leaked internal documents posted on the gaming forum ResetEra, Microsoft plans to integrate cryptocurrency wallets into its Xbox gaming console. Phil Spencer, head of Xbox, attributed the leak to the Federal Trade Commission’s legal action against Microsoft. The FTC’s opposition to the $69 million Activision Blizzard acquisition resulted in Microsoft unintentionally including leaked documents within their submissions. While Spencer has indicated that the company’s plans might have undergone changes, the cryptocurrency community remains optimistic about the leak. Tyler Winklevoss, co-founder of Gemini, weighed in on the incident, highlighting the vast scale of the gaming industry.

### **Summary**

Overall, regulators are signaling greater oversight of cryptocurrencies through policy reviews, restrictions, and warnings about risks. But core crypto technology keeps advancing with upgrades like Uniswap's Swap Protection for Ethereum transactions. The path ahead promises ongoing regulatory pressure, but also continued progress in boosting security, expanding functionality, and driving adoption. Cryptocurrency communities are pushing ahead on technology while bracing for further policy limitations. Approximately, the ETH price will remain constant.

### **References**

- <https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/09/26/us-house-lawmakers-push-secs-gensler-to-approve-spot-bitcoin-etf-immediately/>
- <https://abmedia.io/taiwan-fsc-vasp-guidance>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/us-federal-reserve-banks-stablecoins-money-market-funds-source-financial-instability>
- <https://coincu.com/219751-uniswap-wallet-swap-protection-transactions/#:~:text=By%20introducing%20this%20innovative%20feature%2C%20Uniswap%20Wallet%20aims,potential%20attacks%20that%20have%20plagued%20the%20DeFi%20space>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/digital-yuan-app-adds-prepaid-mastercard-visa-payments-tourists>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/arbitrum-dao-takes-56million-of-unclaimed-arb-tokens>
- <https://cointelegraph.com/news/200-million-mixin-network-hack-draws-controversy>
- <https://finance.yahoo.com/news/jpmorgan-u-k-bank-chase-041118732.html>
- <https://cryptoslate.com/leaked-documents-reveal-microsofts-plans-to-bring-crypto-wallets-to-xbox/>
