---
date: 1688722598
title: 'The Bitcoin Roller Coaster: Navigating Price in a Tightly Regulated Market'
description:
  'In an era of burgeoning financial technologies, a whirlwind of significant advancements in
  Bitcoin Core, blockchain, and regulatory measures has been stirring across the globe. Today, we
  dive into the intricacies of such developments and explore their implications for the future of
  cryptocurrency markets, particularly focusing on Bitcoin. As Bitcoins remarkable rise continues to
  make headlines, a variety of factors, including the progress in Bitcoin ETF applications, the
  evolution of Japans stablecoin regulation, the implementation of the Data Act of EU, and a gamut
  of technological advances in blockchain, are converging to influence Bitcoins next weeks
  performance. Amidst the rapidly evolving landscape, we predict a 3% depreciation in the BTC price
  from July 8-14, 2023, driven by the interplay of these developments and their respective
  consequences.'
---

### **Introduction**

In an era of burgeoning financial technologies, a whirlwind of significant advancements in Bitcoin
Core, blockchain, and regulatory measures has been stirring across the globe. Today, we dive into
the intricacies of such developments and explore their implications for the future of cryptocurrency
markets, particularly focusing on Bitcoin. As Bitcoin's remarkable rise continues to make headlines,
a variety of factors, including the progress in Bitcoin ETF applications, the evolution of Japan's
stablecoin regulation, the implementation of the Data Act of EU, and a gamut of technological
advances in blockchain, are converging to influence Bitcoin's next week's performance. Amidst the
rapidly evolving landscape, we **predict a 3% depreciation in the BTC price from July 8-14, 2023**,
driven by the interplay of these developments and their respective consequences.

### **Global Regulatory Stance**

Regulatory oversight is a critical component in the crypto market that has significant implications
for the prices of digital assets.

1. The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) has launched a cross-border automated market maker
   (**AMM**) project, involving **Singapore, Switzerland and France**. The project aims to explore
   the feasibility and benefits of using AMM technology to facilitate cross-border payments and
   settlements using **CBDCs**. AMMs are smart contracts that provide liquidity and price discovery
   for digital assets, without the need for intermediaries or order books. According to the BIS, the
   project will leverage the existing CBDC platforms of the participating central banks and test
   different AMM designs and governance arrangements.
2. **Mastercard**, one of the world's leading payment networks, is piloting a new tokenization
   service that allows banks to issue tokenized deposits in the **UK**. The service, which is part
   of Mastercard's Digital First initiative, **enables customers to access their funds through a
   digital wallet on their smartphone,** without the need for a physical card or account number. The
   tokens are linked to the customer's bank account and can be used for online and offline payments,
   as well as peer-to-peer transfers. Mastercard claims that the service offers enhanced security,
   convenience and control for both customers and banks.
3. **Thailand's** Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has announced new regulations for digital
   asset businesses, effective from July 16, 2023. The regulations cover four types of digital asset
   operators: issuers, exchanges, brokers and dealers. The SEC requires all operators to obtain a
   license from the regulator and comply with various rules on **capital adequacy, risk management,
   anti-money laundering, consumer protection and disclosure**. The SEC also sets out the criteria
   and conditions for issuing and offering digital tokens, such as utility tokens, security tokens
   and stablecoins.
4. The **Hong Kong** government announced the establishment of a dedicated group for the development
   of the third generation of the internet (**Web3.0**) on June 30, 2023. The group, chaired by the
   Financial Secretary, comprises 15 non-official members from relevant industries and
   representatives from key government officials and financial regulatory institutions. The tenure
   of the non-official members begins on July 1, 2023, for a period of two years. The group will
   provide recommendations to the government on the sustainable and responsible development of
   Web3.0 in Hong Kong. The Financial Secretary believes that the group's valuable insights will
   help Hong Kong become a hub for Web3.0.
5. **UK regulation**: The UK has enacted the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) 2023, which
   grants regulatory authority over cryptoassets and stablecoins to the Financial Conduct Authority
   (FCA). The act, which received royal assent from King Charles on June 30, 2023, defines
   cryptoassets as "any asset that is issued or transferred using distributed ledger technology or
   any similar technology", and stablecoins as "a type of cryptoasset that purports to maintain a
   stable value by reference to an underlying asset or basket of assets". The act also empowers the
   FCA to issue rules and guidance on the classification, issuance, promotion, trading and custody
   of cryptoassets and stablecoins.
6. **MAS and DPT**: The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) has issued new cryptocurrency investor
   protection restrictions. It requires related platforms to safeguard user assets through a trust
   and prohibits the provision of lending and collateral services to retail investors. Angela Ang, a
   former MAS regulator, stated that Singapore's requirements are not as strict as Hong Kong's. For
   instance, Singapore currently requires 90% of customer crypto assets to be stored in a
   cryptocurrency wallet, while Hong Kong requires 98%. The compliance registration in Hong Kong and
   Singapore is more about obtaining a compliant status for expansion into other parts of the world
   or attracting institutional clients to serve professional investors. According to the MAS
   announcement, **Digital Payment Token (DPT)** service providers need to safeguard customer assets
   through a statutory trust by the end of the year. This regulation will reduce the risk of
   customer asset loss or misuse and help recover customer assets in the event of DPT service
   provider bankruptcy. **Crypto.com**, which just became a DPT payment institution, may be affected
   by this regulation.
7. **Japan's stablecoin bill**: Japan is one of the most active and innovative markets for crypto,
   and it is poised to introduce a new legal framework for stablecoins, which are digital tokens
   pegged to fiat currencies or other assets. According to a report by Yahoo Taiwan , the bill aims
   to regulate stablecoins as a type of prepaid payment instrument, similar to electronic money, and
   to impose requirements on issuers, such as registration, disclosure, and reserve management. The
   bill also seeks to promote interoperability among different stablecoin platforms and to protect
   consumers from fraud and loss. One of the potential beneficiaries of this bill is **Circle**, a
   US-based company that operates the USD Coin (USDC) stablecoin, which has recently announced its
   plans to launch in Japan in partnership with GMO Internet.
8. **Europe's data bill**: The European Union is also making strides in the digital economy, and it
   has recently finalized a controversial set of rules that would give regulators the power to
   **intervene in** **smart contracts**, which are self-executing agreements encoded on a
   blockchain. According to a report by AB Media , the rules are part of the Digital Markets Act
   (DMA), which aims to curb the dominance of big tech platforms and foster fair competition and
   innovation. The rules would allow regulators to order platforms to suspend or modify smart
   contracts that are deemed to harm consumers or competitors, or to pose systemic risks. The rules
   have been criticized by some crypto advocates, who argue that they undermine the core principles
   of decentralization and immutability that underpin blockchain technology. The rules were
   presented by Pilar del Castillo, the rapporteur of the DMA, and Thierry Breton, the commissioner
   for internal market, in a press conference. Breton also tweeted about the rules, saying that they
   would ensure "a level playing field for all actors in the digital space".
9. **Bitcoin spot ETF**: The US is still lagging behind other jurisdictions in approving a bitcoin
   exchange-traded fund (ETF), which would allow investors to gain exposure to the price of bitcoin
   without having to buy or store it directly. However, there are signs of progress, as Nasdaq has
   recently refiled an application for Valkyrie Investments' bitcoin spot ETF, which would track the
   actual price of bitcoin rather than its futures contracts. This comes after BlackRock, the
   world's largest asset manager, also refiled its application for a bitcoin spot ETF in partnership
   with Nasdaq. However, not everyone is optimistic about the prospects of a bitcoin ETF, as some
   analysts argue that it would be detrimental for the crypto industry, as it would give more power
   and influence to traditional finance institutions over the crypto market.
10. **Bitcoin Depot and GSR II Meteora Acquisition Corp Business Combination:** Bitcoin Depot, the
    largest **Bitcoin ATM operator** in North America, has completed a business combination with GSR
    II Meteora Acquisition Corp. The combined company is named Bitcoin Depot Inc. and is expected to
    be listed on the Nasdaq. **The company has a pro forma enterprise value of approximately $1.8
    billion and a pro forma equity value of approximately $2.4 billion. Bitcoin Depot has over 7,000
    ATMs in the United States and is aiming to have 20,000 ATMs by the end of 2023.**
11. **Kraken Ordered to Provide User Information:** The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has
    obtained a court order requiring Kraken, a major cryptocurrency exchange, to provide information
    about its users. The IRS is seeking information on users who conducted at least $20,000 in
    transactions in cryptocurrency from 2016 to 2020. This move is part of a broader effort by the
    IRS to **clamp down on tax evasion in the cryptocurrency sector.**
12. **North Carolina Considers Adding Bitcoin and Gold to State Treasury:** The House of
    Representatives in North Carolina has passed a bill to study the pros and cons of the state
    government holding digital assets and precious metals. The bill, named "State Precious Metals
    Depository Study," will assess whether holding digital assets and precious metals could help
    hedge the state's funds, reduce portfolio volatility, and yield better returns. The bill has
    been submitted to the state Senate and, if passed, will need to be signed by Governor Roy
    Cooper. The bill proposes a $50,000 budget for the study.

### **Technology Advancement**

The **Bitcoin Core 25.0** release brings several notable changes and improvements. Here's a summary
of the key technical advancements and what they mean:

1. **P2P and Network Changes**: Transactions of non-witness size 65 bytes and above are now allowed
   by the mempool and relay policy. This change enhances the network's resilience against certain
   types of attacks (CVE-2017-12842) and opens up additional use-cases for smaller transaction
   sizes.
2. **New RPCs**: The new **`scanblocks`** RPC returns relevant blockhashes from a set of descriptors
   by scanning all blockfilters in the given range. This can be used in combination with the
   **`getblockheader`** and **`rescanblockchain`** RPCs for faster wallet rescans, improving
   efficiency.
3. **Updated RPCs**: All JSON-RPC methods now accept a new named parameter called **`args`** that
   can contain positional parameter values. This is a convenience feature that allows some parameter
   values to be passed by name without having to name every value, simplifying the command-line
   interface.
4. **Build System Changes**: The **`-enable-upnp-default`** and **`-enable-natpmp-default`** options
   have been removed. If you want to use port mapping, you can configure it using a .conf file, or
   by passing the relevant options at runtime. This change gives users more control over their
   network configurations.
5. **Wallet Improvements**: The wallet now supports spending coins sent to P2WSH Miniscript
   descriptors, expanding the types of transactions that can be handled. Additionally, the
   **`minconf`** and **`maxconf`** options have been added to several RPCs, allowing users to
   specify the minimum and maximum number of confirmations a UTXO being spent has.
6. **GUI Changes**: The "Mask values" is now a persistent option, and it affects the "Transaction"
   view in addition to the "Overview" one. This improves user experience by providing more
   consistent behavior across different views.
7. **REST Enhancements**: A new **`/rest/deploymentinfo`** endpoint has been added for fetching
   various state info regarding deployments of consensus changes. This provides more transparency
   and accessibility to information about network changes.
8. **Binary Verification**: The binary verification script has been updated to verify that the
   binaries are signed by a threshold of trusted keys, enhancing the security of the software
   distribution process.

These advancements collectively improve the performance, security, and usability of Bitcoin Core,
making it more robust and efficient for users and developers alike.

### **Economic Outlook and Trends**

The latest report from **CMF** reveals a concerning trend in consumer employment confidence. As of
March 2023, it has only rebounded to 71% of its February 2022 levels. This diminished confidence,
even lower than last year during the height of pandemic-induced home confinement, is reflected in
decreased consumer purchasing power. Consumers' future willingness to spend also remains subdued,
recovering to just 86.2% of its February 2022 status. These declines in employment confidence and
consumer spending intent may be attributable to the prevailing economic conditions.

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to linger. From January to May this year, passenger
traffic saw a year-on-year increase of 57%, yet this growth pales in comparison to pre-pandemic
numbers. In May 2023, passenger traffic had only recovered to 54.5% of its 2019 volume.

The growth rate of technology industry drops more than manufacturing, which will reduce massive jobs
for highly educated talents.

The report further highlights that the investment scenario this year is likely to worsen in the
latter half, potentially casting a further shadow over the job market and consumer confidence.

According to the latest data from the U.S. Department of Labor, **job vacancies in the U.S. fell in
May**, dropping from 10.3 million in April to 9.82 million. However, the labor market still faces
significant challenges, such as labor shortages, skills mismatches, and low participation rates.
**Consumer confidence has also improved slightly in June, but remains below pre-pandemic levels**.

The average five-year fixed mortgage rate in the UK has risen above 6% for the first time since 2008
, raising fears of a housing crash as millions of borrowers face higher repayments. The UK is also
lagging behind in blockchain technology and computer science innovation, as it faces regulatory
hurdles, skills gaps, and competition from other countries.

Meanwhile, the world is experiencing the effects of climate change in unprecedented ways. The UN
reported that the first week of July was the hottest week ever recorded globally, with temperatures
exceeding 50°C in some regions. This has led to extreme weather events such as heatwaves, droughts,
floods and wildfires, which have caused deaths, displacements and damages. Additionally, climate
change is also affecting the global economy by disrupting trade, agriculture and energy production.
For instance, **a new study estimated that El Niño, a periodic warming of the Pacific Ocean that
alters weather patterns, could cost the world $1.15 trillion by 2050.**

### **Summary**

As global regulatory frameworks adjust to accommodate the burgeoning cryptocurrency sector, various
implications have surfaced for Bitcoin's price trajectory. Regulatory overtures from BIS,
Mastercard, Thailand's SEC, Hong Kong's dedicated Web3.0 group, and the Monetary Authority of
Singapore, along with the impact of the UK's Financial Services and Markets Act 2023, have stirred
the crypto markets significantly. Technological advancements in Bitcoin Core 25.0, emphasizing
improved performance, security, and usability, also contribute to the dynamic ebb and flow of
Bitcoin's valuation. Economic factors such as lingering COVID-19 impacts, an expected downturn in
the investment scenario, and the increasingly palpable effects of climate change further complicate
the market sentiment. With the confluence of these influences, a slight pullback in Bitcoin's price,
around 3% depreciation, seems likely in the upcoming week. Further exploration of these factors will
provide a more granular understanding of the imminent market movement.

### **Reference**

- https://www.bis.org/about/bisih/topics/cbdc/mariana.htm
- https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/06/28/mastercard-is-piloting-tokenized-bank-deposits-in-new-uk-testbed/
- https://www.sec.or.th/TH/Pages/News_Detail.aspx?SECID=10018
- https://dw-media.tkww.hk/epaper/tkp/20230703/A11_Screen.pdf
- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/correspondence/letter-to-cryptoasset-firms-financial-promotions-regime.pdf
- https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/07/03/singapores-mas-orders-crypto-firms-to-keep-customer-assets-in-a-trust-by-year-end/
- https://www.etoday.co.kr/news/view/2261973
- https://likms.assembly.go.kr/bill/billDetail.do?billId=PRC_S2B3O0Y5C0A8D1F3Q2D9X2E8U6T7R9
- https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202306/30/P2023063000578.htm
- https://cointelegraph.com/news/over-80-crypto-firms-eyeing-presence-in-hong-kong-financial-secretary
- https://decrypt.co/147217/belarus-crypto-ban-p2p-transactions-fraud
- https://cointelegraph.com/news/belarus-wants-to-ban-p2p-cryptocurrency-transactions
- https://www.coindeskjapan.com/192587/
- https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/fr/webstreaming/press-conference-by-pilar-del-castillo-ver-rapporteur-and-thierry-breton-commissioner-for-internal-m_20230314-1700-SPECIAL-PRESSER
- https://twitter.com/ThierryBreton/status/1673814911137316864
- https://listingcenter.nasdaq.com/assets/rulebook/NASDAQ/filings/SR-NASDAQ-2023-016_Resubmission.pdf
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R6H4eVwJpSw&t=405s
- https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-etfs-even-worse-for-crypto-than-central-exchanges
- https://cointelegraph.com/news/blackrock-etf-isnt-bullish-for-bitcoin
- https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2023/06/30/2698079/0/en/Bitcoin-Depot-and-GSR-II-Meteora-Acquisition-Corp-Announce-Closing-of-Business-Combination.html
- [bitcoin depot](https://d1io3yog0oux5.cloudfront.net/_6c030feccd2576a924ba6416b49b2548/bitcoindepot/db/3583/33083/pdf/bitcoin+depot+investor+presentation.pdf)
- https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-06-30/kraken-ordered-to-turn-over-its-users-information-to-the-irs
- https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.cand.407965/gov.uscourts.cand.407965.34.0.pdf
- https://decrypt.co/146746/north-carolina-reps-suggest-adding-bitcoin-gold-to-state-treasury
